title: One way around a wifi portal.
type: code-entry
category: code
date: 2011-10-21
---

This summer I went to linux-con. My group of friends stayed at a youth hostel that offered internet that you had to sign up for. To use the internet you had to log-in with user credentials using a web portal. We found a way around it.

#### The setup
The network, from our point of view, seemed fairly simple. Everyone who associated with an access-point (AP) was dropped onto a VLAN and given an IP via DHCP. Using this IP you could get to the registration page, but besides that, _most_ useful protocols were being filtered . I say "most" because not everything was blocked. Port 53 was open and we were able to resolve hostnames using external DNS servers. One of my friends settled for just tunneling through DNS as a solution.

#### The solution
Being on that initial VLAN was not very usefull. We needed a way to get onto the VLAN that had access to the larger internet. The good news for us was that these "web portal login pay-walled" internet set ups all work very similarly. You get an account, you login, the system records your MAC address as "valid" and not so magically you end up on a different VLAN and are able to check facebook. Hurray! Hurray? Yes, all you have to do is get a mac that is already "valid" and you are set.

But what about collisions? Yes, if you are on a layer 2 network with someone with the same MAC address as you, things *really* don't work to well. After ssh sessions collapse a few times, we needed a fix. Since the problem is isolated to level 2, going up 3 floors, "sniffing" an authenticated mac using Kismet and using that mac solved our problems. Internet for all.
